>> Paul DeBettignies: The second
thing I'm gonna do and
some of you will probably do it now
while I'm speaking and that's just fine,
I'm going to go Google me so
I know that 85% of recruiters and
HR professionals will admit that when we
see job seekers or candidates online that
we're going to go find out more info
about them, the other 15% are lying.
They just don't wanna get sued.
But all the survey say,
recruiters, HR managers, and
I do it every day, just so you know,
if a candidate applies for a role,
I am really saying, okay, like what's the
LinkedIn profile, they also want to it or
wonder what they've been tweeting about.
And for me, I'm always trying to
include people into the job search.
Some people gonna try to exclude
you from the job search.
So tomorrow you will find
on Twitter that I will have
been at a tailgate for
the Gopher football versus Purdue game.
It's gonna be a little chilly tomorrow.
Undoubtedly, there is going to be
a photo of me and some something could
be fireball [LAUGH], could be some rumble
mins and hot chocolate like something.
Undoubtedly, we're gonna a photo
like me with a beer in my hand.
That's cool.
I wanna make sure though that
if I'm now going out and
doing a job search networking with tech
professionals reaching out to a CTO,
that they don't see the photo
from college, that other photo.
That one when you were like
after the game, after the party.
It's now 3 o'clock in the morning,
walking back from Taco Bell.
I wanna make sure that they're
not gonna see those photos.
So I'm gonna Google myself.
I'm gonna log out of Google.
I'm gonna make it so
that it's not doing my search preferences.
Log out, I'm gonna do an Incognito Window.
Like I wanna pretend I'm
the HR director at 3M, Google,
Facebook, Microsoft, wherever it might be.
What are they gonna find out about me?
So I need to find out, I learn from that.
Do I need to take anything
off of my online identity?
For my friends and I,
we have rule, two beer rule.
It's football.
We're gonna have a couple of beers
before the game.
Three or more beers, we put the phones
away, so that should really
be going forward, sort of your rule
if you don't already have one.
It's called a show that
you have personality.
It's called a show that you have
outside interest beyond tech.
But we don't need to show them all
the things you're doing outside of
the world of tech.
So some of the things you have
posted on Facebook that I can find,
you wanna lock that down if you can for
a while.
I know there are sites that will freak you
out is if you go to pipo.com, P-I-P-O.com,
type in your name and your like and it
could be Alabama, Minnesota, Pennsylvania.
Undoubtedly, you're going to find
things about you that you forgot about.
So if I go to pipo.com,
search my name, I find my address
from when I was six years old.
Now a couple of you just cringed.
I know a couple you're like, shit, see,
a couple of your smiling now too like,
okay, now let's really figure out
what it is that someone might find.
I wanna know all of that info
before someone else is going to so
I would do that this weekend
early part of next week.
Some of you are doing it right now,
[LAUGH] that's quite okay with me,
cuz I wanna figure out if I can find me.
Can I find my LinkedIn profile,
can I find my Twitter account?
And I mean this in a good way now.
A couple of you are smiling now by
the way looking at your keyboard,
you're like how do they know?
Welcome to the Internet.
But I wanna be able to figure out people
are gonna be able to find me because
you're a couple statistics for 35% of
employers are less likely to interview
a candidate they can't find online.
So 10 years ago, is roughly 10 years ago,
11 years ago when Facebook made it so
that anyone, it wasn't just college
university, let's call it 10 years ago.
Back then it was weird if a recruiter or a
HR, personal hiring manager would look for
you online.
Now if I can't find you online,
I get freaked out.
If I can't find some high school
photo of you with a French horn,
from a junior in high school, if I can't
find that photo of you being outside on
skateboard roller blades, whoever it was
when you were ten, that's weird to me now.
It truly is.
And so what we're gonna talk a little
bit about, like how to have an online
presence, but I just kinda wanna give
you some sense of this is the reaction.
So I wanna make sure I can be found and
there are more stats about this.
So it cuts both ways.
If I can find things out about you online,
I am more likely to speak with you and
of course the cuts the other
way too is I might not.
There are lots of positive reasons
to be having an online website.
We're gonna talk about that,
to have a presence online,
to have a LinkedIn profile, to be on
Instagram or Twitter if you want to be.
There's lots of reasons to do it.
We're gonna focus on those.